[Music]
ten natural ways to remove tartar
build-up tartar sauce might be great on
your fish but nobody likes to have
tartar on their teeth and I'm talking
about bacteria filled plaque that
hardens and stains your pearly whites
when not removed it becomes rough and
can actually lead to gum disease not to
mention those yellow stains can make you
feel pretty self-conscious about your
smile but don't worry you've got
everything you need to pulverize that
plaque right in your kitchen here are 10
totally natural ways to get rid of
tartar buildup from your teeth before we
get into the recipes don't forget that
we have tons of useful videos like this
one on our channel so become an official
bright cider by clicking that subscribe
button
give the notification Bell a ring while
you're at it so that you don't miss any
of our daily uploads number 10 baking
soda and salt you can start with this
simple yet effective method of tartar
removal mix 1 tablespoon of baking soda
with a pinch of salt and put some of
this mixture on your toothbrush
alternatively you can add it to your
regular toothpaste - just don't brush
your teeth with baking soda more than
once a week since it's abrasiveness can
damage your enamel besides helping you
out in the struggle against tartar
baking soda has a number of other oral
health benefits it supports healthy oral
pH levels it's antimicrobial properties
reduce the number of harmful bacteria in
your mouth and it helps remove stains
from your teeth giving you a whiter
brighter smile now a lot of people think
baking soda is dangerous to use on your
teeth because it contains aluminum this
is nothing more than a common
misconception baking soda does not
contain any aluminum what does contain
aluminum though is some types of baking
powder and they don't even have pure
aluminum just aluminum derivatives still
baking soda is pretty abrasive so again
don't use it more than once a week on
your teeth
[Music]
number nine orange peel you ever wonder
what to do with orange peel leftovers
such a shame to just throw them away you
know well waste no more if you're
looking to get rid of stains and tartar
buildup from your teeth simply rub the
white part of the peel directly over
your teeth
for two to three minutes you can also
make a paste and apply it to your teeth
whichever you choose rinse your mouth
with lukewarm water afterwards you can
use orange peel on your teeth about two
to three times a week citrus fruits are
generally good at removing plaque stains
because they contain acids orange peel
in particular contains soluble fiber
vitamin C pectin and limonene these
elements serve as sort of a prevention
and that they fight food debris that
otherwise accumulates on your teeth
besides some of these components serve
as natural whiteners for example
limonene is a compounding many teeth
whitening products another advantage of
using orange peel to keep your teeth
healthy is the fact that it's not as
acidic as the fruit itself so it doesn't
erode your enamel number eight lemon
juice replace orange peel with lemon
juice if you want better and faster
results
lemon acids not only dissolve plaque but
also whiten teeth more effectively than
orange peel dip your toothbrush and
fresh lemon juice and gently rub it over
the teeth leave it on for a minute
before rinsing since it's more abrasive
you should only use this method once
every two weeks otherwise you can really
harm your teeth also if you have
sensitive teeth you should probably
choose another way of removing dental
plaque lemon juice contains too much
citric acid which can make your teeth
become painful and overly sensitive in
some cases it can also deprive your
teeth of calcium and that's a serious
problem since lost calcium can't be
replaced
number seven sesame seeds sesame seeds
have so many uses outside of the kitchen
you can use them against hair loss for
wound healing preventing bug bites
treating frostbite and of course
removing tartar they act as a natural
scrub that both polishes and cleans your
teeth all you've got to do is chew on
one full tablespoon of seeds now you
want to create a kind of paste in your
mouth without swallowing it in the
process after you've successfully
completed this challenge take a dry
toothbrush and brush your teeth with
paste you can use this method twice a
week an additional benefit of sesame
seeds is their ability to lower the
number of streptococcus bacteria in your
mouth that is that nasty highly
contagious strand of bacteria that gives
you strep throat number six hydrogen
peroxide and mouthwash since both of
these ingredients have highly effective
antibacterial properties they make a
great team when combined mix one
tablespoon of antiseptic mouthwash with
three tablespoons of 3% hydrogen
peroxide solution gargle this mixture
for a couple of minutes and follow it
out with clean water hydrogen peroxide
has an additional benefit of being a
teeth whitener you can use it as such in
two ways either as a rinse or as a paste
in the second case makes it was 2
teaspoons of baking soda and leave the
resulting concoction on your teeth for
two to three minutes after that rinse
the paste off with water number five a
coconut oil another thing you can reach
for in your kitchen cupboard is coconut
oils in a popular procedure called oil
pulling the coconut oil absorbs dirt in
the mouth reduces tartar and plaque and
helps you get rid of bad breath on top
of that it also has an antibacterial
effect against all the microorganisms
that have decided to call your mouth
their home swish one or two tablespoons
of coconut oil around in your mouth for
10 to 15 minutes don't worry it tastes
great then spit it out and rinse well
with warm water number 4 strawberries
and tomatoes
both tomatoes and strawberries are rich
in vitamin C so you can use them if
lemons or oranges aren't your thing chop
up and blend either of them into a paste
and put it on your teeth leave it there
for five minutes then rinse your mouth
out with water on the other hand you
should be extra careful with
strawberries if you have sensitive teeth
strawberries contain a sorbic acid which
can harm your enamel if you still go for
this method it's recommended to use
fluoride toothpaste to brush your teeth
right after you rinse your mouth
number three aloe vera and glycerin this
combination is a whole concoction of
goodness for your teeth mix one teaspoon
of pure aloe vera gel four teaspoons of
vegetable glycerin ten drops of lemon
essential oil and four tablespoons of
baking soda in one cup of water to get a
smooth paste brush your teeth with this
paste once a day until you see the
tartar becoming less visible repeat this
procedure every three to four days
aloe vera helps teeth and gums heal
while essential lemon oil fights
bacteria
[Music]
number two cloves this spice has long
been used as a pain remedy for toothache
it also kills oral bacteria
grind the cloves or find a ready-made
powder add a little olive oil and apply
the mixture to the stained areas one
more way you can use cloves is to
regularly chew on them to reduce bad
breath caused by bacteria in the mouth
try it instead of your usual chewing gum
number one sanguine area now here's a
bit of an unusual tartar removing method
sanguine area is a plant more commonly
known as blood root but it's not as
weird as it seems at first glance blood
root extract is often included in
toothpaste it's a safe antibacterial
agent effective for reducing tartar just
add three or four drops of sanguine area
extract to a cup of warm water to make a
mouthwash it can be gargled every day or
even twice a day all these natural
remedies can work if your tartar
build-up hasn't reached critical levels
yet if it has or if you have super
sensitive teeth that react strongly to
acids please consult your dentist before
trying any of these methods
there are special ways of removing
plaque and tartar from teeths that can
only be performed by the pros have you
ever used any of these recipes to remove
tartar do you know any other effective
ways to get rid of plaque build up let
everybody know in the comments below
remember to hit the like button if this
video has been useful to you and click
subscribe to join us on the bright side
of life
[Music]